## Borrower Preferences

For a few years, borrowers had been assigned specific ops staff to work with, and those
ops staff came to know the borrowers' specific preferences. However, a change was made
to better utilize ops staff across accounts and ensure better coverage during vacation
and holiday periods. This change resulted in effectively putting ops staff on
round-robin with borrowers, and losing that existing knowledge of how the borrower
prefers to work. Borrowers were upset, and some stopped working with Kiavi, altogether
because of the additional load it placed on them; repeat business with Kiavi was no
longer efficient and handled well.

One example of this is a borrower may prefer to use a specific attorney or title agent,
and had previously relied on the account manager to engage the right people on their
behalf. After the change, the borrower would receive many requests for the same
information that they were accustomed to having Kiavi "already know". Frustration was
high, and the ops teams struggled with it, unsuccessfully.

### In-context Notes

My team took on the requirement to provide a feature to document borrowers' preferences
in each area of the [Operations Console][1], allowing the ops staff to use those
preferences without having to contact the borrower multiple times for the same
information. The original objective was to simply document the preferences, but the
longer-term goal was to have those preferences be pre-defined data that the system could
apply automatically.

There were 16 categories that required preferences, and those would be automatically
popped up in the [Operations Console][1] when the ops staff navigated to a page that was
affected by the information in a category. Those categories include which people should
be assigned work for this borrower's loans, extra details about the borrower or their
business entity, bank account information, exposure limit overrides, and much more. This
information allowed quick data entry of those preferences right when they were expressed
by the borrower, and quick retrieval of them in the exact location that they were
needed, circumventing an unnecessary call to the borrower.

### Reception and Result

In the end, the ops staff was so pleased with the result that they chose not to move to
the second phase of the system, because they felt like it wouldn't provide enough of a
benefit to warrant the additional work. What was delivered fit their needs fully.

[1]: /kiavi#operations-console
