## Full Stack Engineer

My typical web project is a *Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)* application, which offers
the ability to create *ground-breaking, unique, and highly inventive* solutions.  In
addition, SaaS applications require a greater level of development experience and
skill, which strongly appeals to my *inventor's spirit.*  SaaS applications make the
web *functional,* rather than simply presentational, and I believe that's the
ultimate strength of the web.

I'm skilled in all layers of the web stack, using a variety of technologies.  While
my primary web stack focus is *Ruby on Rails,* I have also developed and delivered
full-stack applications in Java/JSP, C#/ASP.NET, PHP/Symfony2, and even *C++*.  As a
skilled full-stack engineer, I have a *mastery* of the major facets of a web
application: the backend server, data persistence, user experience (UX) design, HTML
page layout, CSS styling, and dynamic behavior with Javascript, Ajax, and web APIs.

On the presentation side, I work well with *Javascript, HTML5, and CSS/SCSS,* as
well as various media types.  I prefer to feature *broad browser support* whenever
possible, in order to minimize Support costs, and find that using libraries such as
*jQuery and Underscore,* as well as frameworks such as *React and Backbone* provide
a great deal of help in accomplishing this.  Dynamic behavior brings a website to
life, providing interaction and feedback to the user, enhancing the overall
experience.

On the backend, I typically use a *MVC framework*, such as *Ruby on Rails,* to
implement the server-side functionality.  I'm comfortable using various database
technologies, including relational (SQL and noSQL), document, key/value, graph, and
object databases for persistence.  In addition, I'm keenly aware of the *performance
and scalability* needs of the application, and I ensure that the application design
and implementation address both aspects.  Performance and scalability goals can be
met using a wide variety of techniques, from *pre-computation* and *intelligent
caching* to *asynchronous server* design and *task queues.*

I often consume and publish *web APIs.*  Full-featured web applications frequently
offer API access, and this is particularly true of SaaS applications and
*microservices.*  The most common API technologies used today are *REST and
WebHooks,* although *SOAP, RPC-XML, and even CORBA* have all been used in the
not-too-distant past.  Additionally, URL and POST params, as well as *JSON, XML,
YAML, and CSV* are go-to web API data formats.  I'm well-versed working with each,
whether dealing directly with the envelope and content formats or when using a
language wrapper published for the API.
