## Adjustment Analysis

PAIRS provides two forms of adjustment analysis, both of which leverage the
*appraiser's professional experience* to direct the analysis and choose credible
estimates.  The either or both of the forms may be used for the final analysis, and
estimates chosen can be *reconciled on the Define Adjustments* page.

* [Basic Statistics][1]
* [Advanced Modeling][2]

In both forms of adjustment analysis, estimates must be chosen that are *reasonable
in the appraiser's professional opinion;* the software rightly *leaves value
judgements to the appriaser's experience,* and instead focuses on providing
first-class analytics to inform and support the appraiser's value judgements.

Property features may be added or removed to choose the *relevant set of property
features* for the market and subject property, also based on the *appraiser's
experience in the market and professional opinion.*  Once suitable estimates have
been chosen for all selected property features, these may be saved to the analysis.

As such, PAIRS allows the appraiser to *select any number of variables* to analyze
for the market, based on the content of the uploaded data.  This gives the ability
to *test and account* for any variable's *contribution to market value.*  Common
variables that contribute to value may be an extra bedroom, an additional garage
bay, or a pool; however the ability to analyze the value contribution of
exceptional, *high-impact property features* such as an *ocean or lake view, golf
course frontage, or condo floor level* give PAIRS a level of analytic control that's
truly leading-edge.

PAIRS naturally allows multiple adjustment estimates to be used to support an
appraiser's value judgement for a given variable.  While these would appear to
provide conflicting information, the appraiser uses the [Reconciliation][3] process
to define a single credible value for the adjustment, thereby using the disparate
estimates as *support for the adjustment.*  In the appraisal world, this is a
first-rate practice, and defines a resolution to ambiguities encountered throughout
the appraisal process.

Using PAIRS, it's not only possible, but preferrable to use as many *credible
adjustment estimates* as possible.  Each adjustment estimate provides support for
the final *adjustment value* for a property feature.  Having multiple supporting
estimates can essentially *bulletproof* an appraisal's adjustments, providing
*protection* to the appraisal from a successful challenge.


  [1]: /gandysoft/basic-statistics
  [2]: /gandysoft/advanced-modeling
  [3]: /gandysoft/reconciliation
